---
title: "Master Mind Word Puzzle Game"
date: 2024-08-27
---

Master Mind Game

Master mind is a game which keep test to your mind. This is a mind game. We have already heard about the similar kind of games based on word puzzle. This is a more complex game to all such game. In this game the words were very complex and useful to improve the student’s vocabulary and reading skills.

Words are in jumble format which we need to re-arranged in order to score best. As the words word are complex, we would provide the player with a hint beforehand only. Here we have three levels in this game are easy, medium, and hard. These levels are based on time.

SCOPE

a)	Easy: Time provided is 2 minutes.
b)	Medium: Time provided is 1 minute.
c)	Hard: Time provided is 30 seconds.

•	We have to provide only limited words in this game
•	We have also provided time limitation for this word game
•	And only three levels

PROPOSED SYSTEM

Our Android Project name is “Mastermind game”. The main advantage by playing this game we can improve our vocabulary. In this first one jumbled word is displayed on the screen, using the letters of the jumbled word we have to write the correct meaningful word in the box provided. If we write the correct word the score is displayed in the right side of the screen. For one correct word the user gets ten points. If we write wrong word then another jumbled word is replaced. The time provided for this game as per the difficulty levels. After finishing the time, it asks as we want to quit or try again.

In this the option of selecting the difficulty of the game are easy, medium, hard three levels are present. In the easy level the words which are displayed are easier when compare to other two levels. In the medium level the words are slightly difficult when compare to easier level. In the hard level the words are harder when compare to other two levels.

As it is a combination of all four buttons play, options, help, exit. If we press play button the game starts. If we press option button three levels are displayed easy, medium, and hard. If we want to know that details of that game the help button is used. If we want to quit the game exit button is used.
 

KEY FUNTIONALITY


Admin:

•	Create three levels
•	Adding words to game based on difficulty levels
•	Check user wise reports.
•	Add/Update user credentials.
•	Maintain scores.

User: 

•	Register for the game with proper details
•	Play game
•	See self-score and top score of the game/level.


CONCLUSION:

Finally, we concluded that the “MASTER MIND” is a game android application developed on a new mobile platform Android, and for the users who loves playing games, it also helps users to get relaxed from heavy work. And also improves the vocabulary capability to the user.
